an introduction to the book of Ezra.
The book was written by Ezra, a priest from the family line of Aaron.
Ezra was a man of faith who made a diligent study of the scriptures,
and as a priest, had the responsibility to teach God's word to others.
He was also a skilled copyist, a job that required meticulous attention to detail.
This thoroughly researched account picks up right where he concluded the book of Second Chronicles,
following the Jewish captivity in Babylon.
He wrote this book in about 460 BCE in Jerusalem.
Did you know The books of Ezra and Nehemiah were combined on one scroll.
Later though, the scroll was divided into the two books we have in our Bibles today.
The book of Ezra contains ten chapters.
Chapters 1 through 6 describe the return of a small group of Jews to Jerusalem.
In 537 BCE, they rebuilt the altar and celebrated the festival of booze,
thus ending the 70-year desolation.
In the following year, the foundation of the temple was laid.
And although opposition halted the work for a time,
the house of Jehovah was completed by 515 BCE.
In chapters 7 to 10, we jumped forward almost 50 years to 468 BCE
as Ezra recounts his own perilous journey to Jerusalem.
Upon arrival, Ezra was shocked to find that serious sins have taken place among the Jews.
He approached Jehovah in public prayer, and action was taken to restore the spiritual condition of the people.
As you read the book of Ezra, take note of how Jehovah fulfilled his promise to free his people from exile in Babylon,
and to restore true worship in Jerusalem.
Important steps leading to the appearance of the Messiah.